eip7732: make several updates to spec (#4438)
ethereum/consensus-specs: specs/_features/eip7732/beacon-chain.md

## Constants

### Domain types

| Name                    | Value                                          |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |

> | `DOMAIN_BEACON_BUILDER` | `DomainType('0x1B000000')` # (New in EIP-7732) |

Author: I'm carrying this since forever because I didn't know which fork it would collide with, I feel it's better to keep a random number until it's time to ship (if that ever happens)

### Predicates

#### New `is_attestation_same_slot`

```python
def is_attestation_same_slot(state: BeaconState, data: AttestationData) -> bool:
    """
    Checks if the attestation was for the block proposed at the attestation slot
    """
    if data.slot == 0:
        return True
    is_matching_blockroot = data.beacon_block_root == get_block_root_at_slot(state, Slot(data.slot))
    is_current_blockroot = data.beacon_block_root != get_block_root_at_slot(
        state, Slot(data.slot - 1)
    )
    return is_matching_blockroot and is_current_blockroot
```

#### Modified `is_compounding_withdrawal_credential`

```python
def is_compounding_withdrawal_credential(withdrawal_credentials: Bytes32) -> bool:
    prefix = withdrawal_credentials[:1]
    return prefix == COMPOUNDING_WITHDRAWAL_PREFIX or prefix == BUILDER_WITHDRAWAL_PREFIX

> ```

Reviewer: This is a very misleading change. We should update this function instead:
* [`has_execution_withdrawal_credential`](https://github.com/ethereum/consensus-specs/blob/master/specs/electra/beacon-chain.md#new-has_execution_withdrawal_credential)

And rename `is_builder` to `has_builder_withdrawal_credential` for consistency.

Reviewer: Oops, I meant to link `has_compounding_withdrawal_credential` not the execution one.

access) are considered invalid. State transitions that cause an `uint64`
overflow or underflow are also considered invalid.

### Modified `process_slot`

*Note*: `process_slot` is modified to unset the payload availability bit.

```python
def process_slot(state: BeaconState) -> None:
    # Cache state root
    previous_state_root = hash_tree_root(state)
    state.state_roots[state.slot % SLOTS_PER_HISTORICAL_ROOT] = previous_state_root
    # Cache latest block header state root
    if state.latest_block_header.state_root == Bytes32():
        state.latest_block_header.state_root = previous_state_root
    # Cache block root
    previous_block_root = hash_tree_root(state.latest_block_header)
    state.block_roots[state.slot % SLOTS_PER_HISTORICAL_ROOT] = previous_block_root

>     # Unset the next payload availability [New in EIP-7732]
>     state.execution_payload_availability[(state.slot + 1) % SLOTS_PER_HISTORICAL_ROOT] = 0b0

Reviewer: Let's move the "new in" comment above the comment.
```suggestion
    # [New in EIP7732]
    # Unset the next payload availability
    state.execution_payload_availability[(state.slot + 1) % SLOTS_PER_HISTORICAL_ROOT] = 0b0
```

    process_historical_summaries_update(state)
    process_participation_flag_updates(state)
    process_sync_committee_updates(state)
    process_builder_pending_payments(state)  # [New in EIP-7732]
```

#### New `process_builder_pending_payments(state)`

```python
def process_builder_pending_payments(state: BeaconState) -> None:
    """
    processes the builder pending payments from the previous epoch.
    """
    quorum = (
        get_total_active_balance(state) // SLOTS_PER_EPOCH * BUILDER_PAYMENT_THRESHOLD_NUMERATOR
    )
    quorum //= BUILDER_PAYMENT_THRESHOLD_DENOMINATOR
    for payment in state.builder_pending_payments[:SLOTS_PER_EPOCH]:
        if payment.weight > quorum:
            exit_queue_epoch = compute_exit_epoch_and_update_churn(state, payment.withdrawal.amount)
            payment.withdrawal.withdrawable_epoch = Epoch(
                exit_queue_epoch + MIN_VALIDATOR_WITHDRAWABILITY_DELAY
            )
            state.builder_pending_withdrawals.append(payment.withdrawal)
    state.builder_pending_payments = state.builder_pending_payments[SLOTS_PER_EPOCH:] + [
        BuilderPendingPayment() for _ in range(SLOTS_PER_EPOCH)

>     ]

Author: It's fixed 64 slots: the first 32 are for the payments of the previous epoch, the last 32 for the current epoch. Attestations can only be included for 2 epochs.

#### Withdrawals

##### New `should_process_builder_withdrawal`

```python

> def should_process_builder_withdrawal(

Reviewer: Not a fan of "should" here. I think I would prefer `is_builder_payment_withdrawable`.

        if (
            withdrawal.withdrawable_epoch > epoch
            or len(withdrawals) + 1 == MAX_WITHDRAWALS_PER_PAYLOAD
        ):
            break
        if should_process_builder_withdrawal(state, withdrawal):
            total_withdrawn = sum(
                w.amount for w in withdrawals if w.validator_index == withdrawal.builder_index
            )
            balance = state.balances[withdrawal.builder_index] - total_withdrawn
            builder = state.validators[withdrawal.builder_index]
            if builder.slashed:
                withdrawable_balance = min(balance, withdrawal.amount)
            elif balance > MIN_ACTIVATION_BALANCE:
                withdrawable_balance = min(balance - MIN_ACTIVATION_BALANCE, withdrawal.amount)
            else:
                withdrawable_balance = 0

            withdrawals.append(
                Withdrawal(
                    index=withdrawal_index,
                    validator_index=withdrawal.builder_index,
                    address=withdrawal.fee_recipient,
                    amount=withdrawable_balance,
                )
            )
            withdrawal_index += WithdrawalIndex(1)

>         processed_builder_withdrawals_count += 1

Author: This was a design decision of erring in the side of chain security vs proposer payment safety, instead of an attestation the biggest risk is the builder slashing itself.

>         processed_builder_withdrawals_count += 1

Reviewer: We chatted about this a little on telegram. Let's consider fixing this later.

    signed_header = block.body.signed_execution_payload_header
    assert verify_execution_payload_header_signature(state, signed_header)

    header = signed_header.message
    builder_index = header.builder_index
    builder = state.validators[builder_index]
    assert is_active_validator(builder, get_current_epoch(state))
    assert not builder.slashed
    amount = header.value
    # Check that the builder is registered as a builder unless self-building with zero value
    if not is_builder(builder):
        assert builder_index == block.proposer_index
        assert amount == 0

>     # Check that the builder is active non-slashed has funds to cover the bid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Check that the builder is active, non-slashed, and has funds to cover the bid
```

But also, the comment is a little misleading since we check the first two before the comment.

    for_ops(body.payload_attestations, process_payload_attestation)  # [New in EIP-7732]
```

##### Attestations

###### Modified `process_attestation`

*Note*: The function is modified to track the weight for pending builder
payments and to use the `index` field in the `AttestationData` to signal the
payload availability.

```python
def process_attestation(state: BeaconState, attestation: Attestation) -> None:
    data = attestation.data
    assert data.target.epoch in (get_previous_epoch(state), get_current_epoch(state))
    assert data.target.epoch == compute_epoch_at_slot(data.slot)
    assert data.slot + MIN_ATTESTATION_INCLUSION_DELAY <= state.slot

>     # [Modified in Electra:EIP7549]

Reviewer: There are three comments like this (search `Electra:`) which should be removed.

        envelope.blob_kzg_commitments
    )

    # Verify the withdrawals root
    assert hash_tree_root(payload.withdrawals) == state.latest_withdrawals_root

    # Verify the gas_limit
    assert committed_header.gas_limit == payload.gas_limit

    assert committed_header.block_hash == payload.block_hash

>     # Verify consistency of the parent hash with respect to the previous execution payload

Reviewer: Nit, can we delete the blank lines & add a comment above line 1142?

    assert payload.parent_hash == state.latest_block_hash
    # Verify prev_randao
    assert payload.prev_randao == get_randao_mix(state, get_current_epoch(state))
    # Verify timestamp
    assert payload.timestamp == compute_time_at_slot(state, state.slot)
    # Verify commitments are under limit
    assert len(envelope.blob_kzg_commitments) <= MAX_BLOBS_PER_BLOCK
    # Verify the execution payload is valid
    versioned_hashes = [
        kzg_commitment_to_versioned_hash(commitment) for commitment in envelope.blob_kzg_commitments
    ]
    requests = envelope.execution_requests
    assert execution_engine.verify_and_notify_new_payload(
        NewPayloadRequest(
            execution_payload=payload,
            versioned_hashes=versioned_hashes,
            parent_beacon_block_root=state.latest_block_header.parent_root,
            execution_requests=requests,
        )
    )

>     # Process Electra operations

Reviewer: Let's remove this comment. I don't want to mention other forks.
